---
title: Teaching refugees how to code
author: Haya Odeh
date: 2018-01-26T08:00:00.000Z
categories: news
---

At Repl.it our mission is to make programming more accessible. We can’t do this
alone so it’s great to partner with non-profits and hack clubs that share our
mission. [Re-coded](http://www.re-coded.com/) is one of those non-profits, they're
teaching programming in the refugee camps in Iraq and Turkey. Today I’d like to share
with you their story of how they found Repl.it useful in overcoming logistical challenges.

![refugees coding](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*lBVMxcsvMHSkghlAo1-5GQ.png)

By: Gabe Jackson

At Re:Coded, it’s our goal to provide a world-class education to refugees and
displaced persons who would not otherwise have access to such opportunities.

In making that goal a reality, we depend on a number of tools in the
classroom. One of our favorites is repl.it, an in-browser IDE and REPL that we
use for everything from facilitating our selection process to live coding
through examples in class to creating personalized homework assignments for
students.

We began using repl.it as a platform for live coding in front of the class. As
our trainers work through an example with the class, they can save the code at
various stages of completion. repl.it provides a unique link for each saved
state, making it easy for students to follow along. Students can also revisit
the example code at previous stages to refresh their memory as to how the final
code came to be and challenge themselves to repeat the steps of its creation.

repl.it allows the trainers to switch paradigms seamlessly. In our pilot cohort
in 2016–2017, we taught programming fundamentals in Ruby before transitioning
towards front-end development with JavaScript. If students were having trouble
understanding a new concept in JavaScript, we could simply open up a Ruby
repl.it right next to the JavaScript one and write (and run!) the same code in a
more familiar language.


Students learning in the refugee camp We also love how lightweight yet
feature-rich repl.it is. The main application bundle for the JavaScript and Ruby
repl.it pages currently checks in at about 735 KB, which seems criminally small
given how much functionality is packed into it. Sure, it takes the average US
household connection less than a half-second to download 735 KB, but to halt the
analysis there is dangerously myopic. Performance zealots are sometimes
pooh-poohed by their well-meaning but close-minded peers, but such
considerations really matter in environments with less-than-stellar Internet
connections and intermittent service. An entire sandboxed development
environment in less than a megabyte is incredible, full-stop.

In planning the selection process for the second Re:Coded cohort, we decided to
create a code challenge for prospective students. There were several ideas
bandied about as to how we could best accomplish this. Our two primary
requirements were minimal environmental complexity (since we wanted to assess
the applicants’ coding aptitude; not their ability to set up a local development
environment) and ease of aggregating and viewing the results. repl.it knocked it
out of the park on both counts.

Because repl.it requires nothing beyond a browser, it was painless for
applicants with minimal computing experience to get up and running. We added all
of the prospective students into a repl.it Classroom, created some examples for
them to follow and an assignment to complete, and were notified every time a new
submission arrived. It worked perfectly.

When we first encountered repl.it, it seemed like a cute tool for sharing short
code snippets. Fast-forward a year, and it was an integral part of the tech
stack at Re:Coded. Its flexibility, portability, trivial setup cost, and minimal
network overhead helped it carve out an important role in our tooling. Thanks
for the great software, repl.it!