---
title: YouTube tutorials using Repl.it
author: Amjad Masad
date: 2017-03-20T07:00:00.000Z
categories: news
---

**EDIT - This article is now outdated**

If you're looking for up-to-date videos about Replit, the best place to loook is [our Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgoJjdR6-7AMu9fDitb6nVw). The videos below may be inaccurate, or missing. 

---

We've been seeing more and more coding video tutorials using YouTube and
Twitch.tv. Today we're sharing some of our favorite YouTube videos that uses
Repl.it [](preview end):

## 0. Coding your first program on Repl.it with Emile

In this video [Emile
Ferreira](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9ukgb_LALDFUDlBxTg3fbw) shows how to
code your first program in your language of choice. Emile is a talented
developer and educator and I hear that he'll be creating more content using
Repl.it soon.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LYYX9zP3Jp8?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 1. Learn Python with Rafeh Qazi

[Rafeh Qazi aka Clever Programmer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqrILQNl5Ed9Dz6CGMyvMTQ/featured)'s
channel is full of great content for aspiring programmers. In addition to
Repl.it, he uses Codecademy and a few other tools to walk you through the Python
Programming language. Check out this video that uses Repl.it to teach Python
Dictionaries:

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l46sJnu51GY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 2. Learn C, Python, and More with BrainStemSchool

[BrainStemSchool](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfGO-TYFf0BqmmYZwxFz5kA)
features a lot of great content on a variety of programming topics. It starts
out simple but works up to complex topic -- all using Repl.it!

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/T4tZSbqRd-8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 3. Functional programming Alexander Noriega

[Alexander Noriega](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFzadgI-W3FJXRQDvm_6iOw)
uses Repl.it to discuss functional programming on YouTube. In this video
Alexander uses Repl.it to contrast function composition between JavaScript and
Haskell.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eyqAWCZo5bg?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 4. Learn the Algorithmic Way of Thinking with Philosophy Behind Coding

[Philosophy Behind
Coding](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCKYJJA7nYEu6HfVwmje3YXQ) has everything
you need to break into the software development industry! They use animation
videos for explanations and Repl.it for the coding part.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vlzOyfOW6d0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 5. C and C++ Tutorials with Beginning Programmer

The [Beginning
Programmer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrhUttSom3otwixKItuLmvQ) channel is
full of great content that uses Repl.it and focuses on C and C++.


<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IGn8I-cD9vA?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 6. Integrate Programming with Repl.it and OneNote

This is a tutorial for teachers who are looking to add fun code interactions to
their classroom OneNote.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/V1bdyL991XY?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## 7. A LOLCode Tutorial

Last but not least, nothing would be complete without some lolz.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Mrxgv-ISnaM?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
